---
layout: default
---

# Introduction
This project simulates a small enterprise network environment designed for cybersecurity monitoring and detection testing.

The lab consists of four virtual machines connected through a custom NAT network:
- **Ubuntu Server** running Splunk Enterprise (SIEM)
- **Windows Server 2022** configured as an Active Directory Domain Controller
- **Windows 10** endpoint joined to the domain
- **Kali Linux** used for attack simulation

The objective is to monitor and analyze security events generated by endpoint activity and attack scenarios. Logs are collected using **Sysmon** and forwarded to Splunk via the **Splunk Universal Forwarder**.

Attack simulations are performed using **Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP)** and **Atomic Red Team**, allowing for detection validation and identification of visibility gaps.

## 🖥️ Environments Used

- **Ubuntu Server 24.04.2** – Hosts Splunk Enterprise for log collection and analysis.

- **Windows Server 2022** – Configured as the Active Directory Domain Controller (AD DC), managing domain users and machines.

- **Windows 10 Pro** – Acts as the target endpoint, joined to the domain. Sysmon and Splunk Universal Forwarder are installed to collect and forward event logs to the Splunk server.  
  Atomic Red Team is also deployed on this machine to simulate adversarial behavior and test detection coverage.

- **Kali Linux** – Used as the attacker machine to simulate intrusions and generate activity on the target system.

All machines are connected through a custom NAT network, allowing isolated communication between them for testing.

## 🖥️ Configurations

| Machine        | Role                     | OS                     | IP Address         |
|----------------|--------------------------|------------------------|--------------------|
| Ubuntu Server  | Splunk Enterprise (SIEM) | Ubuntu Server 24.04.2 | 192.168.10.10      |
| Windows Server | Active Directory (DC)    | Windows Server 2022   | 192.168.10.7       |
| Windows 10     | Target PC                | Windows 10 Pro        | 192.168.10.100     |
| Kali Linux     | Attacker                 | Debian-based Linux    | 192.168.10.250     |




# Approach
